---
layout: post
title: "The Way You Say It Matters"
subtitle: "Subtitle"
date: 2012-10-27 12:44
comments: true
categories: 
---

There are a ton of books written on <a href="http://www.amazon.com/How-Talk-Kids-Will-Listen/dp/1451663889/">how to talk to children</a>. One topic I see frequently is how to properly phrase criticism. The idea is that when a child misbehaves, it's said that you should denounce the action, yet praise the child. i.e. "she is a good kid who has done something wrong" - rather than "she is a terrible kid."

Interestingly, anyone can apply this advice to their internal dialogue to learn what they think of themselves. For example, many people will say to themselves, "I've always been a lazy guy, but today I got a lot of work done - I did good today."

Sounds okay, but this person actually defines himself as an unmotivated person who has happened to do something good. Alternatively, you might say "I accomplished a lot today because I'm disciplined and dedicated to achieving my goal. I may have had some setbacks but not today." Similar, but very different.

Now lets look at some advice you've surely heard before:

<blockquote>"There are those who think they will succeed and those who think they will fail. In the end, both are right."</blockquote>

This seems obvious, but it's surprisingly easy to mess this up. The subtlety to this advice is in the phrasing. "You are a disciplined person who goes to the gym" is a very different thought than "you will go to the gym you lazy bum." Both seem like motivation, but one isn't motivation at all.

Start listening to your internal dialogue. To the tone, the mood, and the phrasing. Separate yourself from your inner voice and you'll learn a lot about what you think of yourself.